# React Application Template using TypeScript

`Author: Jan Peter Merkel `

# Content:
  1. [Scope](#1-scope)
  2. [Folder Structure](#2-folder-structure)
  3. [Available Routes](#3-available-routes)
  4. [Development Environment Setup](#4-development-environment-setup)
  5. [Application Deploy](#5-application-deploy)
  6. [Refferences](#6-refferences)

### Minimum requirements:
To run this application you should have the following dependencies on your machine:
 - [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
 - [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

 **Note:** Ensure pip is also instaled and available on your PATH.



# 1. Scope:
The scope of this repository is to be a template for a minimal React Application. Covering basic docker build ready to deploy.
It also aims to standarize the documentation for future projects with a similar basis.

# 2. Folder Structure

```
├── Dockerfile - File necessary to generate a container image
├── README.md
├── __pycache__
├── .env copy - Environment variables sample
├── app.py - Main application, where all routes should be
├── controllers - Folder where all functions that are used on routes should be
└── requirements.txt - File with necessary packages to build the application
```


# 3. Available Routes

## 3.1 `[GET]` - Routes
### 1. `/`
This route returns a "Hello World!"
This is test route.

## 3.1 `[POST]` Routes
---

# 4. Development Environment Setup

## 4.1 Running the application locally
You can run the application locally by running

 `flask run` on the project root folder.

You should see the following output:

```
 * Debug mode: off
WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000
Press CTRL+C to quit
```
## 4.2 Building a Container Locally

### 4.2.1 How to generate a requirements.txt file
Requirements.txt is a file that has all the dependencies needed to run our application, this file is not generated by hand. It can be generated automatically with the following command:

`pipreqs .`

If the execution was successfull you should see a new file named `requirements.txt`

### 4.2.3 How to build a Docker Image
For building a docker image we run the following command

`docker build -t <your_application_name> .`

example:

`docker build -t rest_api .`

### 4.2.4 Running your Docker Image as a container
After building your Image you can run it as a container with the following command

`docker run -d -p <your_pc_port>:<container_port> <your_application_name>`

example:

`docker run -d -p 5001:5000 rest_api`

The command above has two arguments:

 - -d : This tells docker to run in detached mode, it doesn't lock your terminal while running the application.

 - -p: this tells docker to bind your computer port on the containers port.

 After running the command above the application should be accessible on `http://localhost:5001/`

### 4.2.5 Killing the application
After running your application, list the containers running with:
`docker ps`

the expected output should be:

```
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE      COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                    NAMES
1fe244221799   rest_api   "python3 -m flask ru…"   6 seconds ago   Up 5 seconds   0.0.0.0:5
```

Then you can kill the application with the first Container ID letters as bellow:

`docker kill 1fe`





# 5. Application Deploy
TO DO...

# 6. Refferences
TO DO...

